Hello, my name is Douglas Walker.
Today, we are going to be looking at
setting bookmarks in Safari.
Now, you might be asking what is a bookmark.
Well, bookmarking is a way of making
or creating a favorite to our website
so that we can easily access it at a later time.
It's sort of like creating a list
of all of our favorite webpages,
and it's a really great way of
being able to keep organized there.
Now we're also going to look at how to create folders,
and this is great because we can actually save
different types of websites into our different folders.
First, we're gonna learn how to create a folder,
and then we'll learn how to place our bookmarks
in a folder.
Now, Safari of course is Apple's web browsing software,
and we happen to have Safari right here on our dock,
so how about we go ahead and just flick to our Safari app?
So we'll just flick here.
Safar.
Double tap to open.
Okay, so, then we'll just
single finger double tap to launch Safari here.
We'll launch Safari.
Safar, skip to content in page link.
Okay, this is great.
Safari has opened,
and we have been placed right back in the website
that we last had open,
and it just so happens to be our videos at Hadley page.
Now, this of course is where we will find
all of our iFocus Instructional Videos,
and of course the web address to this
is www.hadley.edu/instructionalvideos.
Alright, so, we're gonna learn how to bookmark
this page page today.
But first, we're gonna take a look
at our Safari interface here.
So we're just we're just gonna explore
how our interface is laid out here.
Now, we're assuming that we already know
how to browse the internet using Safari.
So, we're just gonna explore a toolbar today.
Now, our toolbar is actually laid out
across the bottom edge of our screen
where we typically find tabs laid out.
Now, we actually have five different items
down in our toolbar.
So, we're just gonna go ahead
and touch in the bottom left corner of our screen
to sorta orient ourself to our toolbar.
So, we'll just begin by just touching here in our toolbar
down here at the bottom left.
Back button.
Double tap and hold to open history.
Okay.
So here is our Back button in our bottom-left corner here.
And single finger double tapping on this back button
will take us back to the previous webpage
that we were viewing.
And as we heard voiceover give us some hints there,
we can actually actually double tap and hold
on the second tap while we're on this Back button,
and it will actually open a pop-up dialog for us,
and it'll show us our recent history there.
So that's really nice.
Of course our recent history
is gonna give us the ability to quickly just
jump back a little further in our webpages,
rather than just jumping back one page there.
So, this is a really handy feature for us to have.
Okay, so let's just right flick to our next tool here,
and we'll just go ahead and just right flick here.
So we'll just flick.
Forward button.
Okay, so here is our Forward button.
Now, our Forward button is dimmed at the moment,
and this is because we haven't visited a page yet.
And of course we would've had to visit that page
and then move back from it
in order for this not to be dimmed.
However, this Forward button can be really, really handy
if we've visited a website
and we've sort of moved away from it
and then we wanna go back to it.
So that's pretty handy there.
So let's go ahead and right flick.
We're just exploring these on our toolbar here for now.
So we'll go ahead and right flick.
Share button.
Okay, so this is our share button.
And we're actually going to come back
to our share button in just a bit,
because this is where we're actually gonna set our bookmark.
But first, let's go ahead and just explore
the rest of our bookmarks here.
So, we'll go ahead and just right flick,
and we'll right flick.
Show bookmarks button.
Okay.
So here is our bookmarks button,
and this is where we're gonna find
all of our saved bookmarks
or all of the bookmarks that we've set.
Okay, and we'll come back here as well
in just a bit.
So let's right flick first,
and we'll right flick.
Pages button.
Yeah, and here's our pages button.
Now, Safari gives us the ability
to have several websites or webpages running at one time.
And if we activate our Pages button,
we'll be presented with a list
of all of our open webpages that we have.
And we can quickly move to or switch between
any of our open websites, and that's pretty nice.
Okay, so how about we go ahead,
and we will flick back to our Bookmarks tool,
and we'll check out how to move to our Bookmarks interface.
So, let's go ahead and just left flick.
We'll flick back to bookmarks.
Show Bookmarks button.
Okay, so here's our show bookmarks tool again.
So, we're gonna go ahead and just
single finger double tap
to open our Show Bookmarks interface.
So we'll just single finger double tap here.
Favorites Bookmarks, Back button.
Okay, so our Bookmarks interface
has opened for us,
and we have been placed on our Bookmarks Favorite,
our Bookmarks Back button
in the top-left corner of our screen here.
Okay, so we're currently in our Bookmarks screen of course.
Now what we have here is actually a list
of all of our folders that we have created.
And these folders are of course where we will save
all of our bookmarks, all of our bookmarked websites.
Alright, so how about we quickly just
move through this Bookmarks interface here,
and we'll check out first how to add a new folder
to this folders list.
So let's go ahead and just right flick from here,
and we'll right flick.
Favorites, heading.
Great, so here of course
is our Favorites heading.
It's in the top center of our screen
and just below our time and our status bar there.
So let's go ahead and just right flick,
and we'll right flick.
Done button.
Yeah, here we have a Done button
in the top-right hand corner of our screen.
So if we decide we don't wanna interact
with this Bookmarks interface,
we can just activate this Done button here to close it,
and we would be place right back
in our iFocus Instructional Videos website there.
However, we don't wanna close this,
so we'll just right flick from here,
and we'll go ahead and right flick.
Selected bookmarks button, one of three.
Okay, so we have three buttons here
that run across the top of our Bookmarks interface here,
and they are just below the heading here.
Now, we heard voiceover announce
that our bookmarks are selected.
So we know for sure that all of our bookmarks
are currently visible in our below list here.
Okay, so let's just right flick
to the second of these three buttons here
and check them out.
So we just right flick here.
Reading List button, two of three.
Okay, so here is our Reading List button.
Now we have the ability to save articles if we like
for later reading.
And if we activate our Reading List button here,
all of our saved articles will be listed on this screen,
instead of our bookmarks,
and that's a pretty nice feature.
So let's go ahead and right flick here.
So we'll go ahead and just right flick.
Social Links button, three of three.
This is cool.
This is our Social Links button.
And this is where we'll find all of our feeds
from social apps,
such as maybe twitter or even Facebook.
So we have a lot more than just our bookmarks here.
Now, if we right flick again,
we will be placed right in our Bookmarks Folders list.
So let's go ahead and just right flick
and check it out here.
So we'll right flick.
Blindness Information folder button.
Actions available.
Okay, so here's our
Blindness Information folder,
and this is one that I created
to explore or store any websites
that happen to be kinda blindness information specific
or blindness related.
And if we were to single finger double tap on this folder,
we would be presented with a list
of all of our websites that we've saved to this folder,
which is pretty great.
Alright, now we have several folders here in this list,
and we could just continue
to right flick through this list if we wanted to.
However, how about we go ahead and just create a new folder?
And since we want
to bookmark our iFocus Instructional Videos website,
how about we create a Hadley folder for that?
And that way we can also save
any of our other Hadley-related website there as well.
Now, we have an Edit button
right here on the bottom-right hand corner of our screen.
And to make our new folder button visible,
we'll need to activate this Edit button.
So let's go ahead and touch our Edit button.
We'll just go ahead and touch it
in the bottom-right hand corner here.
So we'll just touch.
Short cuts and command, Edit button.
Okay, so there of course is our Edit button,
and it's now active or the focus is now on it.
So we'll just single finger double tap now
to activate it.
So we'll go ahead and just single finger
double tap anywhere here.
Edit, Done button.
Okay, so you heart our Edit button
turn into a Done button now.
So we'll just come back here
when we're done creating our new folder
and activate this done button.
Okay, so we now have a new folder button,
and it's visible down here
on the bottom left-hand corner of our screen.
So let's go ahead and just touch
this New Folder button in the bottom-left corner here.
So we'll go ahead and touch it down here.
New Folder button.
Okay, so there is the New Folder button.
Now, if we activate our New Folder button,
this is gonna open our New Folder interface,
and we'll be placed right in an edit field
for creating or naming our new folder.
So let's go ahead and single finger double tap,
and we'll begin creating our new folder here.
So we'll just single finger double tap anywhere now.
Title, text field.
Doublet tap to edit.
Great.
And like we said, we have been placed
right in our edit field for naming our folder.
So, how about we go ahead and just name this folder Hadley?
Now, we've been presented with a standard qwerty keyboard
down here at the bottom of our screen.
So, we'll just go ahead and type Hadley.
And we'll type Hadley here.
Cap G, cap H, cap H, Shift,
a, a,
d, d, k,
l, l,
r, e, e,
y, y.
Okay, so here's our new folder's name.
So, to create it, all we need to do
is activate our Done button
in the bottom-right hand corner of our keyboard here.
So, let's go touch our Done button down here
in the bottom right corner.
Done.
And there it is.
So, all we need to do is just single finger double tap.
So we'll go ahead and single finger double tap here.
Favorites, heading.
Okay, so our New Folder interface closed,
and we have been placed right on our heading,
of course back in the top of our Bookmarks
interface screen here.
And our Hadley folder has been added
to our folders list here.
Now we still need to activate our done button
in the bottom-right corner of our Bookmarks interface,
because we're still in edit more here.
So we'll just touch in the bottom-right hand corner
of our screen here, and there's a Done button here.
Done button.
And there it is.
So now all we need to is just single finger double tap.
So we'll do that.
I'll single finger double tap here.
Done, Edit button.
And we heard our Done button
in the bottom-right corner turn back into an Edit button.
Okay.
So how about we check out this bookmarks list
and find our new Hadley folder here?
Now we'll orient ourself back to our Bookmarks interface
by just touching our Favorites heading again.
So we'll just touch our heading here.
Favorites, heading.
Okay, so how about we go ahead then
and just right flick to our new Hadley folder?
And so we'll just right flick here.
Go ahead and right flick.
Done button.
Of course there's our Done button
when we finish with this page
there in the top right-hand corner there.
So we'll right flick again.
Selected, Bookmarks button, one of three.
Buttons across the top.
There's our bookmarks.
Reading List button, two of three.
Right flick to our Reading List button here.
We'll right flick again.
Social Links button, three of three.
There's three of three.
We'll right flick one more time.
Hadley folder button, actions available.
There is our Hadley folder,
and it's now the first folder in our list here.
So that's pretty great.
Now we heard voiceover announce
that we actually have actions available to us here.
So we know when we hear actions
that we can just flick up and down our screen
to hear these different actions.
So how about we do that?
We will just flick down.
So we'll just flick down.
Delete.
Okay, and we heard voiceover announce delete.
And this is great because
this gives us a really quick way
to delete any unwanted folders here.
However, we don't wanna delete our Hadley folder here,
so we'll just flick down again
to hear our other action here.
So we'll just flick down again.
Activate item, default action.
And voiceover announced activate item here
and that this is our default action.
So, we know now that if we were to single finger double tap
all of the websites that we've saved in our Hadley folder
would be visible.
Now we don't currently have any saved websites here,
and activating our Hadley folder
would just give us an empty list.
So how about we go ahead and add a website
to our new Hadley folder.
Remember, we're gonna add our
iFocus Instructional Videos website to this.
So let's go ahead and close our Bookmarks interface here,
and remember to do this.
We'll just need to activate that Done button
at the top-right corner of our screen here.
So, we'll just touch our done button here,
and we'll touch.
Done button.
And we'll just need to
single finger double tap here.
So we'll go ahead single finger double tap.
Skip to content in page link.
Okay, so our Bookmarks interface has closed,
and we have been placed right back in our
iFocus Instructional Videos website here.
Okay, now let's check out
how to add this website to our new Hadley folder.
So we'll just need to touch again in or toolbar
and let's go ahead and touch down here in the bottom left
corner down here to orient ourselves again.
So we'll just touch down here.
Back button.
Double tap and hold to open History.
Okay, so here we are on our Back button again.
And remember we only need to move to our Share button
to actually add this website as a bookmark.
Let's just right flick until we get to our Share tool here.
So we'll just right flick.
Forward button.
Of course there's our Forward button again.
So we'll right flick again.
Share button.
Okay, and here we are on our Share button now
in the bottom center of our screen.
So all we need to do is just single finger double tap
to open our Share options up here.
So we'll just single finger double tap anywhere.
Airdrop recipient, no one found yet.
Image.
When an Airdrop recipient is in range,
double tap on their icon here to start sharing.
Okay, so our Share dialog box
is open at the bottom of our screen here,
and we've been given a lot of different ways
to share our website here.
Now we aren't going to go into detail
about all these Share options.
However, we'll quickly right flick
and just briefly talk about each one of them.
And we'll do this as we look for our Add Bookmark button.
Okay, so let's go ahead and just right flick.
So we'll right flick here.
Now we're actually on our Share, our Airdrop button here.
Airdrop gives us the ability to share
any files with anybody round us
that also has an Apple device.
So that's a really cool feature to have.
So let's go ahead and just right flick from here.
Then we'll get a little descriptor here of this.
Airdrop, share instantly with people nearby.
If they turn on Airdrop from Control Center on iOS
or from Finder on the Mac, you'll see their names here.
Just tap to share.
Okay, they sort of told us what we just said,
so we'll go ahead and right flick here.
Message button, dragable.
Okay, so here's--
Double tap and hold.
Wait for the sound, then drag to rearrange.
And we're gonna get these hints every time.
So we can move these round
by dragging them around if we like.
However, this is our messages button,
so we can actually message this webpage
or send this webpage to somebody,
a text message here.
So we'll right flick.
Mail button, dragable.
And again--
Double tap and hold,
wait for the sound, then drag to rearrange
And we can mail this webpage,
the link to this webpage, to a friend if we like.
So we'll just right flick from here.
Reminders button, dragable.
So, Reminders, we'll flick again.
Notes button, dragable.
We can send this as a note.
Double tap and hold.
Wait for the sound.
We'll right flick.
Save PDF to iBooks,
Save it as a PDF.
Dragable, Add to Favorites button, dragable.
Add this to our Favorites.
Add Bookmark button,
dragable.
Double tap and hold, wait for the sound,
then drag to rearrange.
Okay, and we're gonna get those hints
for everyone of those.
So, anyway, we're already on our Add Bookmark button here.
And you probably already guessed.
All we need to do is single finger double tap
to start adding this
to our bookmarks here.
So all we need to do is just single finger double tap.
So we'll go ahead and just single finger double tap here.
Selected text field is editing.
Resources, instructional videos,
the Hadley School for the Blind.
Insertion point at end.
Okay, so we have another dialog box,
and this is our Add Bookmark Interface here.
Now, we've actually been placed in an edit field
where we can name our website.
However, our website is typically already named for us
in our edit field, and we'll check it out in just a bit.
But how about we quickly just flick through
our Add Bookmark interface here
to check out how it all works and what we have here?
And we'll begin by just orienting ourself
to the top of our screen here.
So we'll go ahead and just touch on the top-left
corner of our screen,
and I will just touch here.
Cancel button.
Alright, so here's our Cancel button,
and of course it's in the top-left corner.
And maybe if we decided that
we didn't wanna add this website after all,
we can just single finger double tap
and we of course we'll be placed right back in our website.
However, we do want to add this one,
so we'll just right flick from here.
So we'll go ahead and right flick.
Add Bookmark, heading.
Okay, so here's our Add Bookmark heading.
Of course, headings are right in the
top center of our screen, just below our time.
And so we'll just right flick from here.
Save button.
Okay, so here is our Save button,
and of course we're gonna come back
and activate our Save button
once we have actually finished exploring
the rest of the screen here.
And so we'll go ahead and just right flick from here.
So we'll right flick.
Text field is editing, character mode,
resources, instructional videos,
the Hadley School for the Blind,
insertion point at end.
Okay, and here we are
back in our edit field for naming our website.
You know, and I like the name of this.
It looks okay to me,
but I could change it if we wanted to change this.
We could change it to anything,
but we're gonna go ahead and just right flick
and leave this as it is.
So we'll right flick from here.
Clear Text button.
And here's our Clear Text button
just to the right of our edit field here.
And we could just single finger double tap here
if we wanted to quickly clear our edit field here
for renaming our text.
However, we don't wanna do that,
so we will just go ahead and right flick from here.
So we'll right flick.
Cap R.
Okay, so here's the icon
that's actually gonna appear
before the website name in our list.
And it's typically the first letter
of our website name here, and this is resources.
So let's just go ahead and right flick from here.
So we'll right flick.
Http//hadley.edu/instructionalvideos.asp.
Dimmed text field.
Great, this is our URL,
our website name here.
And we don't wanna change this,
because if we start modifying this,
it's not gonna go back to this website.
So we'll go ahead and just right flick from here,
and we'll right flick.
Location, heading.
Okay, so here's our heading for our location.
And the location refers to the folder
in which we wanna save our website.
And this is important because
of course this is our Hadley folder
where we're wanting to save this.
So we'll just right flick from here.
We'll right flick.
Favorites.
Okay, so here we are
on what actually is a button,
and this is the name of the folder
in which we want to save our websites.
However, we don't wanna save our website
to our favorites folder.
So, if we single finger double tap,
we'll actually bring up a list of all of our folder here,
and we'll be able to choose
our Hadley folder from this list.
So let's go ahead and just single finger double tap here.
So we'll single finger double tap.
Selected, Favorites.
Okay.
Now this is great.
A list has opened here below our Locations heading,
and we are back in our Add Bookmark interface here.
Then we've been placed on our Favorites folder here.
So we can now just start right flicking
until we find our Hadley folder in our folder list here.
So let's go ahead and just right flick,
and we'll right flick.
Hadley.
Okay, that didn't take long.
That was easy.
It's at the very top of our list.
And now our focus is right on our Hadley folder.
So all we need to now
is just single finger double tap to select it.
So we'll do just that.
We will single finger double tap.
Selected, Hadley, resources,
instructional videos, the Hadley School for the Blind,
text field.
Okay, so we have now selected our Hadley folder,
as our website's location.
So, to finish, saving our instructional video website
in our Hadley's folder,
we just need to activate our save button
in the top-right hand corner of our screen.
So we'll just touch our save button here.
78%, Save button.
Okay, so there's our Save button.
So now all we need to do is just single finger double tap,
and I will do that.
We'll single finger double tap.
Save.
Skipped to content in page link.
Great.
We have been placed
right back in our instructional videos webpage here.
And it's been saved right in our Hadley folder
in our bookmarks.
Alright.
So how about we make sure it's there?
So we'll just go ahead
and touch in the bottom-left hand corner of our screen
to orient ourself to our toolbar here.
So we'll go ahead and just touch.
Back button.
Double tap and hold to open history.
Of course there's our Back button again.
So we'll just need to right flick
until we get to our Show Bookmarks button.
So we'll just right flick.
Forward button.
Of course there's our Forward button.
We'll right flick again.
Share button.
And there's our Share button,
so we'll just right click one more time.
Show Bookmarks button.
Okay, so here we are
on our Show Bookmarks button,
so we'll just single finger double tap
to open our bookmarks list again.
So we'll just single finger double tap.
Favorites, Bookmarks, Back button.
Okay, and of course
this should look very familiar,
because we're once again in the top-left corner
of our Favorite Bookmarks screen here.
So we'll go ahead and just right flick
until we find our Hadley folder here.
So we'll just right flick to Hadley.
Favorites, heading.
There's our heading again.
So we'll right flick.
Done button.
Of course there's our Done button
in the top-right corner.
We'll have these three buttons across here.
Selected Bookmarks button, one of three.
That's our Bookmarks button.
We'll right flick
a couple more times.
Readings button,
two of three.
Right flick again.
Social Links button,
three of three.
And we right click again,
we'll find our Hadley folder.
Hadley folder button, actions available.
And here's our Hadley folder again.
Of course, all we need to do is single finger double tap,
and we should find our new
instructional video website right inside here.
So we'll just single finger double tap.
Favorites, Back button.
Okay, so our Hadley folder has opened,
and we are presented with a list
of all the website that we've added to it.
However, we only have one here, right?
Now, we've been placed on a back button
in the top-left corner of our screen here.
And of course this will move as back
to that folders if we were to activate it.
So let's go ahead and just right flick
until we find our instructional videos website bookmark
in this folder.
So we'll just go ahead and just right flick from here.
Hadley, heading.
There's our Hadley heading
since we're in our Hadley folder,
at the top center of our screen.
So we'll just right flick again.
Done button.
There's our Done button.
If we decided we didn't want to go to this after all,
we could just easily close this
by single finger double tapping there.
So we'll just right flick.
Selected, Bookmarks button, one of three.
These three buttons are gonna be just the same
as our Folders screen there, or interface there.
So we'll just right flick.
Reading List button, two of three.
So our Reading list button
in the center of those.
Social Links button, three of three.
There's our Social Links
just to the right of that.
And we'll flick one more time.
We should find our instructional videos website.
Resources, instructional videos,
the Hadley School for the Blind, actions available.
Super, and here's our
instructional videos bookmark.
And of course we heard actions,
so we could easily flick through our actions
and delete it if we want.
We don't wanna do that.
Now, all we need to do,
since our focus is on this bookmark here
is of course just single finger double tap.
We've already have this website open,
but it would relaunch it here.
So we'll go ahead and single finger double tap.
Skip to content in page link.
Okay.
Just like we said, our instructional video website
was already open.
However, it has reloaded for us and ready to begin,
checking out all of our great
iFocus instructional videos here.
Okay, so, how great is that?
You know, setting bookmarks really is a great way
to store all of our favorite websites.
And creating folders also gives us a great way
of getting even more organized.
And that's great.
Again, my name is Douglas Walker.
Take care and I'll see you next time.